Create Use native host objects in JavaScript how-to article for AddHostObjectToScript (#1743)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/add-host-object-to-script.md

---

> title: Use app objects in JavaScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Use host objects in JavaScript
```

> description: Use host object in JavsScript using the WebView2 AddHostObjectToScript API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to use host objects in JavsScript using the AddHostObjectToScript API for WebView2 apps.
```

author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 2/17/2022
---
# Use host objects in JavaScript

> WebView2 enables applications to bridge between web and native sides of an application using an object that can be passed between the two sides. Such objects are defined in the native code and often called host objects. They can be projected into JavaScript using a WebView2 API called `AddHostObjectToScript`, as described in this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WebView2 enables applications to bridge between web and native sides of an application using an object that can be passed between the two sides. Such objects are defined in the native code and often called _host objects_. They can be projected into JavaScript using a WebView2 API called `AddHostObjectToScript`, as described in this document.
```

Why use `AddHostObjectToScript`?

>   * Developers often encounter a native object whose methods or properties they want to call from JavaScript. They may want these native object methods to be triggered by web code or by user interaction on the web side.

Reviewer: Global in this article: try to use 2nd-person tense.  https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/grammar/person#in-general-use-second-person

>   * In addition, developers may not want to re-implement native object functions, and this API enables re-use of code. For example, there might be a webcam native API, which would take a large amount of code to re-write on the web side. Having the ability to call the native object is quicker and more efficient than re-coding the function. In this case you can pass the object to the web side to reuse the native API function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * In addition, you might not want to re-implement native object functions, and this API enables re-use of code. For example, there might be a webcam native API, which would take a large amount of code to rewrite on the web side. Having the ability to call the native object is quicker and more efficient than re-coding the function. In this case, you can pass the object to the web side, so that the JavaScript code can reuse the native API function.
```

>   * In addition, developers may not want to re-implement native object functions, and this API enables re-use of code. For example, there might be a webcam native API, which would take a large amount of code to re-write on the web side. Having the ability to call the native object is quicker and more efficient than re-coding the function. In this case you can pass the object to the web side to reuse the native API function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * You might not want to re-implement native object functions.  The AddHostObjectToScript API enables re-use of your app's native-side code by your app's web-side code. For example, there might be a webcam native API, which would take a large amount of code to re-write on the web side. Having the ability to call the native object is quicker and more efficient than re-coding the function. In this case, your app's native-side code can pass the object to your app's web-side code, to reuse the native API function.
```

Scenarios that may benefit from using host objects in script:

>   * If there is a keyboard API and the developer wants to call the `keyboardObject.showKeyboard` function from the web side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If there is a keyboard API and you want to call the `keyboardObject.showKeyboard` function from the web side.
```

>   * JavaScript is sandboxed, limiting its ability on the native side. For example, if you need to access a file on the native side, you must use the native file system. If you have a native object exposed to JavaScript via `AddHostObjectToScript`, you can use it to manipulate files on the native file system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If JavaScript is sandboxed, limiting its ability on the native side. For example, if you need to access a file on the native side, you must use the native file system. If you have a native object exposed to JavaScript via `AddHostObjectToScript`, you can use the native object to manipulate files on the native file system.
```

> This article uses the WebView2 sample app to demonstrate some practical applications of `AddHostObjectToScript`. For more information about how to embed web content into native applications [Embed web content into native applications - Microsoft Edge Development | Microsoft Docs](/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/communicate-btwn-web-native.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article uses the WebView2 Win32 sample app to demonstrate some practical applications of `AddHostObjectToScript`. For more information about how to embed web content into native applications, see [Embed web content into native applications](/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/communicate-btwn-web-native).
```
what's the distinctive name of this sample app, vs. others?

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Before you begin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Install Visual Studio, install git, clone the WebView2Samples repo, and open the solution

> ## Before you begin

Reviewer: Change from major-step numbering scheme:
Before you begin
Step 1
Step 1a
Step 1b
Step 2
Step 3

to:

Step 1
Step 2
Step 3
Step 4
Step 5

> 1. Download and install [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/) 2019 (16.11.10) or later, and other prerequisites as described in [Get started with WebView2 in Win32 apps - Microsoft Edge Development | Microsoft Docs](/microsoft-edge/webview2/get-started/win32.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download and install [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/) 2019 (version 16.11.10) or later, and other prerequisites as described in [Get started with WebView2 in Win32 apps](/microsoft-edge/webview2/get-started/win32).
```

> 1. Clone the repo of the sample app from [MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Samples: Microsoft Edge WebView2 samples (github.com)](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Samples).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Clone the [WebView2Samples](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Samples) repo, which includes the Win32-specific WebView2 sample app.
```

> 1. Run Microsoft Visual Studio and open `WebView2GettingStarted.sln`. Keep the sample app open to follow along with the rest of this article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open Microsoft Visual Studio.

 1. In your local copy of the cloned `WebView2Samples` repo, open `GettingStartedGuides > Win32_GettingStarted > WebView2GettingStarted.sln`.  Keep the sample app solution open, to follow along with the rest of this article.
```

Preview of the major steps in this article:

> 1. Define the host object and implement IDispatch so that WebView2 recognizes the object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Define the host object and implement `IDispatch` so that WebView2 recognizes the object.
```

1. Use `AddHostObjectToScript` to pass a method to the web.

> 1. Call the native object’s methods from web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Call the native object's methods from the web-side code.
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Step 1: Define the host object and implement IDispatch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Define the host object and implement IDispatch
```

> To use this `AddHostObjectToScript` API, you first need to define a host object that implements `IDispatch`. If you already have a host object that implements `IDispatch`, skip to [Step 2: Call the AddHostObjectToScript API](#step-2-call-the-addhostobjecttoscript-api). Implementing `IDispatch` is essentially formatting the host object so that it can be passed to the web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this `AddHostObjectToScript` API, you first need to define a host object that implements `IDispatch`. If you already have a host object that implements `IDispatch`, skip to [Step 2: Call the AddHostObjectToScript API](#step-2-call-the-addhostobjecttoscript-api). Implementing `IDispatch` is essentially formatting the host object so that it can be passed to the web-side code.
```

The following example creates a host object from scratch.

**Part 1A:** Create the COM interface using interface definition language (IDL). This is demonstrated in the `HostObjectSample.idl` file. 

> **Part 1B:** Create the C++ object. This is demonstrated in the `HostObjectSampleImpl.cpp` file.

Reviewer: i would flatten it - Top of article = Step 1, bottom = Step 18.  I'd try to avoid multi-layer "step" references.  more "steps", smaller steps, simple linear numbering at any given level (h2 heading level, or, 1. steps within an h2 - no other numbering scheme.
eg https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/get-started/win32?branch=pr-en-us-1733

> The .IDL file defines the interface, and .CPP file implements the defined interface and iDispatch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.idl` file defines the interface, and the .cpp file implements the defined interface and `IDispatch`.
```

### Part 1A: Create the COM interface

In the WebView2 sample code, the file `HostObjectSample.idl` creates a COM object. This step describes how to create your own object in the IDL file.

1. In Visual Studio **Solution Explorer**, open **WebView2APISample** > **Source Files** > **HostObjectSample.idl**.

>     The following code example is broken up into 2 sections. The first interface is titled `interface IHostObjectSample : IUnknown` starting at line 9, which inherits the unknown interface. Use it as a template for your object’s methods properties, callbacks, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The following code example is broken up into 2 sections. The first interface is titled `interface IHostObjectSample : IUnknown` starting at line 9, which inherits the `IUnknown` interface. Use it as a template for your object’s methods properties, callbacks, and so on.
```

>     The following code example is broken up into 2 sections. The first interface is titled `interface IHostObjectSample : IUnknown` starting at line 9, which inherits the unknown interface. Use it as a template for your object’s methods properties, callbacks, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The following code example is broken up into two sections. The first interface is `IHostObjectSample`, starting at line 9, which inherits the `IUnknown` interface. Use this `IHostObjectSample` definition as a template for your object’s methods, properties, callbacks, and so on.
```

>     The second part is the coclass `HostObjectSample` starting at line 35, which includes IDispatch and the  `IHostObjectSample` interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The second part is the coclass `HostObjectSample` starting at line 35, which includes `IDispatch` and the  `IHostObjectSample` interface.
```

>     The second part is the coclass `HostObjectSample` starting at line 35, which includes IDispatch and the  `IHostObjectSample` interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The second part is the co-class `HostObjectSample`, starting at line 35, which includes `IDispatch` and the  `IHostObjectSample` interface.
```

    ```csharp
     1    import "oaidl.idl";
     2    import "ocidl.idl";
     3
     4    [uuid(0a7a4655-5660-47d0-8a37-98ae21399e57), version(0.1)]
     5    library HostObjectSampleLibrary
     6    {
     7        //! [AddHostObjectInterface]
     8        [uuid(3a14c9c0-bc3e-453f-a314-4ce4a0ec81d8), object, local]
     9        interface IHostObjectSample : IUnknown
    10        {

>     11            // Demonstrate basic method call with some parameters and a return value.

Reviewer: decide whether to do an edit pass on the comments
```suggestion
    11            // Demonstrates a basic method call with some parameters and a return value.
```

    12            HRESULT MethodWithParametersAndReturnValue([in] BSTR stringParameter, [in] INT integerParameter, [out, retval] BSTR* stringResult);
    13    
    14           // Demonstrate getting and setting a property.
    15            [propget] HRESULT Property([out, retval] BSTR* stringResult);
    16            [propput] HRESULT Property([in] BSTR stringValue);
    17
    18            [propget] HRESULT IndexedProperty(INT index, [out, retval] BSTR * stringResult);
    19            [propput] HRESULT IndexedProperty(INT index, [in] BSTR stringValue);
    20
    21            // Demonstrate native calling back into JavaScript.
    22            HRESULT CallCallbackAsynchronously([in] IDispatch* callbackParameter);
    23

>     24            // Demonstrate a property which uses Date types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    24            // Demonstrates a property which uses Date types.
```

    25            [propget] HRESULT DateProperty([out, retval] DATE * dateResult);
    26            [propput] HRESULT DateProperty([in] DATE dateValue);
    27
    28            // Creates a date object on the native side and sets the DateProperty to it.
    29            HRESULT CreateNativeDate();
    30
    31        };
    32        //! [AddHostObjectInterface]
    33
    34        [uuid(637abc45-11f7-4dde-84b4-317d62a638d3)]
    35        coclass HostObjectSample
    36        {
    37            [default] interface IHostObjectSample;
    38            interface IDispatch;
    39        };
    40    }
    ```

> 1. Notice line 38 where we include 'interface iDispatch', which is needed for our host object to work with AddHostObjectToScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Notice line 38 where we include `interface IDispatch`, which is needed for our host object to work with `AddHostObjectToScript`.
```

>     IDispatch allows developers to dynamically invoke methods and properties. Normally, calling objects requires static invocations, but you can use JavaScript to dynamically create object calls. See `IDispatch` interface [IDispatch interface (oaidl.h) - Win32 apps | Microsoft Docs](/windows/win32/api/oaidl/nn-oaidl-idispatch) for more information about `IDispatch` inheritance and methods. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `IDispatch` allows you to dynamically invoke methods and properties. Normally, calling objects requires static invocations, but you can use JavaScript to dynamically create object calls.  For more information about `IDispatch` inheritance and methods, see [IDispatch interface (oaidl.h) - Win32](/windows/win32/api/oaidl/nn-oaidl-idispatch). 
```

>     Implement IDispatch as described in  [Type Libraries and the Object Description Language | Microsoft Docs and Using Type Building Interfaces and Functions | Microsoft Docs](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/automat/type-libraries-and-the-object-description-language.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Implement `IDispatch` as described in [Type Libraries and the Object Description Language](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/automat/type-libraries-and-the-object-description-language).
```

>     If the object you want to add to JavaScript doesn’t already implement `IDispatch`, you need to write an IDispatch class wrapper for the object you want to expose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the object you want to add to JavaScript doesn’t already implement `IDispatch`, you need to write an `IDispatch` class wrapper for the object you want to expose.
```

>     There might be libraries to do this automatically. Do learn more about the steps needed for this, see [Automation | Microsoft Docs](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/automat/automation-programming-reference.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    There might be libraries to do this automatically. Do learn more about the steps needed for this, see [Automation](/previous-versions/windows/desktop/automat/automation-programming-reference).
```

> 1. Once the interface is defined in the IDL, save and compile the sample project in Visual Studio to create the Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB) file, which you need to reference from the C++ source code in the following section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Once the interface is defined in the IDL, save and compile the sample project in Visual Studio to create the Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB) file, which you need to reference from the C++ source code that's shown in the following section.
```

### Part 1B: Create the C++ object

> In the WebView2 sample code, the `HostObjectSampleImpl.cpp` file takes the skeleton set in the COM IDL file, and builds the C++ object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the WebView2 sample code, the `HostObjectSampleImpl.cpp` file takes the skeleton-set in the COM IDL file, and builds the C++ object.
```
hyphen when it's hard to parse w/o it

> Implement all the functions defined in your objects interface, as we outlined in the IDL file. Additionally ensure you implement the functions required by iDispatch. The compiler will throw a warning if these functions are not defined. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement all the functions that are defined in your object's interface, as we outlined in the IDL file.  Be sure to implement the functions that are required by `IDispatch`.  The compiler will throw a warning if these functions aren't defined.

> Below we will zoom into 2 specific properties that were defined in the IDL to show how the IDL is related to CPP file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below, we examine two specific properties that were defined in the IDL, to show how the IDL is related to the `.cpp` file.
```

1. In Visual Studio **Solution Explorer**, open **WebView2APISample** > **Source Files** > **HostObjectSampleImpl.cpp**.

> 1. Compare the property declarations in the `HostObjectSample.idl` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Compare the property declarations in the `HostObjectSample.idl` file...
```

    ```csharp
    [propget] HRESULT Property([out, retval] BSTR* stringResult);
    [propput] HRESULT Property([in] BSTR stringValue);
    ```

    To the implementation of the object's properties in the `HostObjectSampleImpl.cpp` file:

    ```cpp
    STDMETHODIMP HostObjectSample::get_Property(BSTR* stringResult)
    {
        *stringResult = SysAllocString(m_propertyValue.c_str());
        return S_OK;
    }
    
    STDMETHODIMP HostObjectSample::put_Property(BSTR stringValue)
    {
        m_propertyValue = stringValue;
        return S_OK;
    }
    ```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 2: Call the AddHostObjectToScript API

> Now that we’ve completed building our interface and implementation of our host object, we are ready to learn how to use the AddHostObjectToScript API to pass the object to JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we've completed building our interface and implementation of our host object, we are ready to learn how to use the AddHostObjectToScript API to pass the object to JavaScript.
```

    44            CHECK_FAILURE(args->get_Uri(&navigationTargetUri));
    45            std::wstring uriTarget(navigationTargetUri.get());
    46
    47            if (AreFileUrisEqual(sampleUri, uriTarget))
    48            {
    49                //! [AddHostObjectToScript]
    50                VARIANT remoteObjectAsVariant = {};
    51                m_hostObject.query_to<IDispatch>(&remoteObjectAsVariant.pdispVal);
    52                remoteObjectAsVariant.vt = VT_DISPATCH;
    53
    54                // We can call AddHostObjectToScript multiple times in a row without
    55                // calling RemoveHostObject first. This will replace the previous object
    56                // with the new object. In our case this is the same object and everything
    57                // is fine.
    58                CHECK_FAILURE(
    59                    m_webView->AddHostObjectToScript(L"sample", &remoteObjectAsVariant));
    60                remoteObjectAsVariant.pdispVal->Release();
    61                //! [AddHostObjectToScript]
    62            }
    ```

1. Review line 31, which gets the URI of the HTML file to display the sample HTML page.

> 1. Review line 33, which shows how to instantiate the COM object just defined in the IDL file. This is the object we will use later when we call `AddHostObjectToScript`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Line 33 shows how to instantiate the COM object that was defined in the IDL file. This is the object that we'll use later, when we call `AddHostObjectToScript`.
```

> 1. Review line 50, which converts the newly created COM object to a variant. This enables you to take in references to objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Line 50 converts the newly created COM object to a `VARIANT`.  This enables you to take references to objects as input parameters.
```

>     This approach supports integers and arrays. For a full list of supported data types, see [VARIANT structure (oaidl.h) - Win32 apps | Microsoft Docs](/windows/win32/api/oaidl/ns-oaidl-variant).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This approach supports integers and arrays. For a full list of supported data types, see [VARIANT structure (oaidl.h)](/windows/win32/api/oaidl/ns-oaidl-variant).
```

    
    Now that we have a variant of the object that is C++ code friendly, we are ready to pass it to web.

> 1. Review line 59, for the code that passes the variant to `AddHostObjectToScript`, names it sample, and enables it as a remote object variant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In line 59, we pass the `VARIANT` to `AddHostObjectToScript`, name it "sample", and enable the remote object as `VARIANT` (`&remoteObjectAsVariant`).
```
check wording at "enable"

Now we have code to successfully create a host object that implements `IDispatch`. It also sets up our native code to call the webview2 API `Addhostobjecttoscript`, and passes the object to the web via AdHostObjectToScrip. Continue to the next step to see what this enables.  

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 3: Use AddHostObjectToScript to pass a method to the web

> To follow along we will use the WebView2 Sample App.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To follow along, we will use the WebView2 Sample App.  
```

> 1. In Microsoft Visual Studio, click **File** > **Save All (Ctrl+Shift+S)** to save the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Microsoft Visual Studio, select **File** > **Save All (Ctrl+Shift+S)** to save the project.
```

1. Press **F5** to build and run the project.

> 1. Open the **ScenarioAddHostObject** HTML file.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open `ScenarioAddHostObject.html`.
```
confirm filename

1. Click **Scenario** > **Host Objects**.

1. Explore properties by clicking buttons such as **Property**, **Method**, and **Callback** to see how the sample code behaves.

>     By now you have observed capabilities of the host object used from the web side. To gain insight into what's happening in JavaScript, lets take a look at the following code snippet: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    By now you have observed capabilities of the host object used from the app's web-side code. To gain insight into what's happening in JavaScript, let's take a look at the following code snippet: 
```

    ```html
    150    // Date property 
    151    document.getElementById("setDateButton").addEventListener("click", () => { 
    152        chrome.webview.hostObjects.options.shouldSerializeDates = true; 
    153        chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.sample.dateProperty = new Date(); 
    154        document.getElementById("dateOutput").textContent = "sample.dateProperty: " + chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.sample.dateProperty; 
    155    }); 
    156    document.getElementById("createRemoteDateButton").addEventListener("click", () => { 
    157        chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.sample.createNativeDate(); 
    158        document.getElementById("dateOutput").textContent = "sample.dateProperty: " + chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.sample.dateProperty; 
    159    });
    ```

> 1. Review line 154. Notice that the code calls `chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.sample.dateProperty`. This line of code is getting the `dateProperty` of the native host object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In line 154, we reference `chrome.webview.hostObjects.sync.sample.dateProperty`. This line of code is getting the `dateProperty` of the native host object.
```

> Congrats! You have successfully completed the process of creating and using a host object. Now lets see what other APIs there are in the host object ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You have successfully created a host object in your app's native-side code, passed the host object to your app's web-side code, and then used the host object from the app's web-side code. Now let's see what other APIs there are in the host-object ecosystem.
```

> The rest of the document is repurposed from [WebView2 Win32 C++ ICoreWebView2 | Microsoft Docs](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2?view=webview2-1.0.1054.31#addhostobjecttoscript).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rest of this article is repurposed from [WebView2 Win32 C++ ICoreWebView2](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2?view=webview2-1.0.1054.31#addhostobjecttoscript).
```

> ---

Reviewer: orphaned article; add node to TOC

title: Use app objects in JavaScript
description: Use host object in JavsScript using the WebView2 AddHostObjectToScript API.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 2/17/2022
---

> # Use app objects in JavaScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Using host objects
```
@jasonstephen15 - change top-of-article title?  if so, change line 2 as well, and TOC title in this PR
